Well, this guy was living as the representative of the Polytech Society.
And he started collecting.
He was there?
He was over there.
He was in Thailand.
He's still there, but he's a Canadian.
He's been there for at least 25 years.
Really interesting guy.
He was here at Harvard as a pneumata, wasn't he?
Yes.
On a pneumata grant for a semester.
He's now in Oswald.
So, killing in Burma will probably get me some background, right, you think?
Oh, yeah.
Bangkok.
Bangkok, yeah.
Well, I'm sorry, Bangkok.
You were saying Burma.
It's Burmese manuscripts, and the idea is that these manuscripts, as soon as Burma is free, the originals will be repatriated.
I know exactly how to use this.
Here at Harvard, five years ago, whenever this iron curtain fell,
The Georgian archives were here.
And then once they had a valid government, they went back to Georgia.
I know exactly.
See how things tell the guys?
This is the idea.
That's fabulous.
So you think I can have a dialogue with this gentleman by email or something like that?
But what's even more interesting is, really, when you think about it, it's not that anybody else is thinking of this, except if the Europeans are not connected.
That's really interesting.
Do they again know?
It's interesting that it's only some Europeans and some Americans who think of that.
Preservation of... The tradition itself is not thinking about it.
For some reason.
It's very curious.
So that Burmese thing... I would hazard a guess, but I'm not going to know why that is, but it is interesting.
That Burmese project, you know, Peter's fragile, it's called Fragile Palm Leaves.
We've got the newsletters.
He produced a newsletter.
I've got the last one.
Do you have stuff on this?
You're in transit right now, so I'm good.
I've got somebody close by.
Peter right now is in Oslo.
He's in Oslo now.
But he goes back and forth.
Well, Oslo is good.
I can talk to somebody on the phone in Oslo.
See, that's a little problematic thing.
But what's interesting, though, is that there's now also kind of a German Japanese angle to this, because a mutual friend of ours and a former classmate of mine, Christoph Tippers, who runs the Lumbini International Research Institute in Lumbini, where the Buddha was born, funded by a Rehukai, which is a modern Japanese Buddhist set.
And then he put together a large library of Buddhist texts.
And he's now in Bangkok putting together an office there to reproduce his facsimile and also to scan Peter's collection with Japanese funding.
And then this collection, it will go back to Burma as soon as it's free.
A stable Burma.
And it's already promised, I think Sue knows about it.
Yeah, because this is now, nobody gets to get the connection again.
Sue is the woman who will be Prime Minister someday.
Okay.
And her husband was a friend of ours.
Michael Harris, a very well-known typologist.
Yeah.
That's a good step.
Very good.
So there's... How did we get on that?
Well, we talked about Conway's magazine.
I was just mentioning... I guess we were talking about the monks.
Yeah.
And the readers.
And the tradition of the reader.
Yeah, exactly.
Well, there's this whole tradition of... In order for a book to be alive,
It has to, the lineage has to survive.
So you have a lineage of, you have to have the initiations that are inherent in the deities, in the practice of the book.
You have to have that book read in your presence, that's the lung, or the reading.
And finally you have to have the tree.
Now we've got to the point, that's the explanation.
We've got to the point where only that means anything.
But to its vent, if you don't have the lumens and the trees... And the wonk.
And the wonk, is it?
The book is dead, or the tradition is dead.
And what was the last, the third element?
It's empowerment.
It's lumens.
It's the authority to read it, which means that one will read it to you.
Secondly, the empowerment is necessary for the practice of what it's written in the book.
and thirdly instructions into the meaning of the book.
Now this is not necessarily all religious material, is it?
Or is it?
Not necessarily, but it has, it's coded in a religious way.
Even medical books?
Even medical texts have a religious background.
And even for medical texts, or for texts on astronomy, medical astronomy, or texts on jurisprudence,
I mean, there's a religious coding that necessitates that you receive, that everyone receives.
I was going to ask a question there.
And so, Leonard, tell me how you got attracted to this involvement in the series.
I was doing something completely different.
I was doing biology and biochemistry when I first started out, and all of a sudden I got hold of a few books written by a chap called Peter, Herbert Peter, who was at the University of Scotland, Canada.
And I was so intrigued by the way he dealt with a Buddhist artist, a Buddhist monk.
That's why you're in university still?
Yes, that's why I decided to draw up what I was doing.
and go to Saskatchewan to study Tibetan, and to do Asian studies.
The University of Washington does do some interesting things.
They had a book, which I have a copy of today, the Gandhara... And I talked to them on the phone, in fact.
They did an interview with them.
Because I'm just interested, this was kind of almost like a Ganesha, a Buddhist version of burying some text which they found, and thankfully because of the climate.
It's my only one, they found the early Gospels in Bar-Hamadim.
Where is it now?
What's it called again?
It's the early Gospels that they found in the 40s.
But in Egypt, where's the place called again?
Oh, you're talking about the Chiroganesa, that was the early Gospels.
Which is fascinating.
Which I write about too, Solomon Schechter.
It's going to be a fun book, I'm doing all this stuff.
Kind of esoterica.
Yeah, well, but try to make stories, you know, and you'll see.
I'm going to send you a copy of the book when I get home.
And then there's the Schoen collection.
That's right.
That's incredible.
Which collection is that, Gene?
Schoen.
Oh, he's... In Oslo, huh?
Yes, I met him.
Oh, you did?
I mean, he sold some books at South of East about ten years ago.
It's a manuscript.
European things, but he was collecting SCHO without a slack, right?
That's what Peter is doing now.
I have a whole chapter in here on the
making of the new British Library and the French Library at the same time.
It's the last chapter of the book.
It's a fun book.
This is really library culture, book culture.
And you'll just see it.
I discussed in the prolog here how after I passed a thousand pages, it became evident that I had to print this thing.
It's a good book.
And really the kicker was it.
It got heard in Korea.
on stones all over the place.
The Korean what?
It's the Korean, what do we call them, the Korean, Tibet.
It's got a Korean canon in Chinese characters.
Korean Buddhist canon in Chinese characters.
I mean the whole Gilgamesh epic is discovered a hundred and some odd years ago.
This is an epic that's a thousand years older than the Odyssey
And it comes to you in clay tablets.
Almost the whole darn thing.
Amazing.
It's fascinating, isn't it?
And so what are they now experimenting with?
You talk about migration of digital stuff, of baking the stuff on enamel, going back to the first processes.
It's called the Rosetta disk.
It's analog.
It's not digital.
They're going to do microscopic digital, and then so they figure 10,000 years from now, you'll need a microscope instead of a computer, because who's going to have a computer in 1,000 years from now, as we know it today?
You need a machine to read this.
The stuff that you're doing in the final analysis, you still need a machine, an interface, to read it.
It's a very different kind of actor.
So, I mean, it wouldn't be a bad idea to keep behind a copy of everything you send to China.
I mean, that's just my one piece of... Yeah, well, that's these guys.
That's what they want to do with it.
Is there anything you want to tell me, Gene, that I missed that we should... Not really.
I meant that things here... I am just kind of...
Well, another thing that's very interesting is that Tibetan Buddhism, I mean, it derives from India, right?
So really, when you're preserving Tibetan Buddhism, you're really also preserving India.
When the Muslims came in, did it with that?
In some degree.
I mean, in the end, because you have to distinguish here between the canon, the Tibetan Buddhist canon, which is mostly is, consists of translation from Indic soldiers in most Indian books.
also a few texts, a few Buddhist texts from the Chinese and from Kodim.
But then you have this huge extracronomical literature.
And visionary teaching.
Enormous.
Which, though it has Indic roots, is still manifestly Tibetan.
Not only because it's written, these texts are written by Tibetan scholars, but also because they represent visions that you don't find in, but rather often to them.
I really would like some nice quotes from you that I can attribute directly to you.
Would you describe him as a mentor to many, many people?
Yeah, I would ask him one last.
Everybody would ask him one last.
A good portion of his day is the Lord of Drew answering questions by email.
How is it possible, one American, to learn so much about something?
He's very gifted.
He's a very gifted person.
Amazing.
Yeah, it was just a wonderful conference of different circumstances.
The Rockefeller Foundation, the one man, made the money, was there, the scholars were there, and he was there.
And he had the will to do it.
That's right.
It was a wonderful mix.
When these Tibetans were in credit showrooms, they were.
saying, he is the honey.
We are the bees, he is the honey, he is attracting, we are here.
Because it can be amazing.
To come and to learn about themselves, you have to go to Grinch Village in New York City, or now up here, you know, this is the place to come.
And he's so enormously generous with his time, and his knowledge.
He's not crusty and cantankerous.
No, not at all, not at all.
So those are just a unique combination of different characteristics and traits in here.
If somebody was to ask you what he is, what is he?
He's not a librarian, he's our teacher, or maybe he's always.
He's a preserver.
Preserver.
Preserver and transmitter.
You said that very quickly.
Have you thought of that before?
No, no, no.
But that's what he does.
And that's in combination with profound intelligence and things that have to do with it.
And does he practice anywhere else there?
He knows, right?
You've never asked?
No.
I've known him for 20 years.
I've never felt it.
I've never felt the need to ask about it.
As he has never asked me either.
Okay, so it's not a question to ask him.
That's what I'm getting from him.
He's been laughed at all.
Probably asked him to ask him something to do.
Okay.
A lot of this stuff came from refugees, of people carrying stuff, right?
Yeah.
Interesting enough, though, this has come up yet.
In the early, before the Cultural Revolution, again, Joan Lyell had a vision of putting together a library in which the literature of the various nationalities in China would be represented.
And so to this end, in 1962, 63, before the Cultural Revolution,
He sent out a few Tivetans with a few Chinese Tivetans.
And he sent them out to go to various monasteries in Tibet, to Galapagos, for this nationalities in Beijing.
And that was what you called nationalities in Beijing?
It is called nationalities now.
And it's in Beijing now.
It's in Beijing now.
So successful?
It was successful.
They have collected about maybe 100,000 nationalities.
Wow.
So it's a huge collection.
Most of this collection now has been repatriated to Tibet.
And it was never really accessible in Beijing, and it's not completely accessible to them.
So what is the Chinese attitude to Tibet?
I mean, apparently they are going to allow them to retain some modicum of their culture, their unique culture, is that right?
Well, who knows?
There was some terrible news yesterday on the crackdown on Uyghurs, burning of Uyghur books.
They're burning Uyghur books now?
Yeah.
Where in Uruti?
All over.
All over Turkestan.
It's a conscious policy.
Of whose policy?
The Chinese government.
Really?
Are they burning books?
Well, the Uyghurs are very militant.
They're the ones who threw a few bombs inside the problem.
And, of course, we're worried that it might be, might go to any other ethnic.
Now, where did you see this story and spread it out for you?
Well, I can get it at home.
It's on the Times, or what were there?
No, it's not in the Times, it's on the government.
But it's disturbing.
More than later publications?
Pardon?
The Bernie Martin, Wager publications, but kind of pro-independence... You're kidding!
He finds everything, doesn't he, huh?
He's a wife for me, the modernian.
So, you teach here at Harvard?
Yes.
These are graduate programs, I guess?
I have a few undergraduate students, I have about 12 graduate students.
How are the collections at Harvard?
Very poor.
Is it still in the program?
Well, as Dean mentioned, it wasn't Harvard, it was what we needed to do as one person.
Are you basically the department?
I'm the chair of my department.
Well, it's a very small department.
There are only seven of us.
the chair of the department several decades ago, when you had the opportunity to get these PL for 80, public law for 80 books, decided not to.
Amazing.
That's so unharved.
So they always get books, and they've got the money.
It didn't cost me anything.
These were free.
These books came for free.
Unbelievable.
You just had to say yes, sign the name on the dotted line, and it was sent to you for free from the dead.
So...
For that reason, right now, I mean, we're doubly affected.
That's my colleague, Janet Council, who is a professor of Buddhist studies in Divinity School in America.
We both were 12, primarily.
We're doubly affected by Gene, and the TBRC, moving to New York.
Not only is Gene known to New York, but also the collection of them.
Having him here must have been a great center.
Wonderful.
And like I said, I've noticed it right here, too.
How did he manage to come up here?
I didn't know he was here all these years.
I mean, I did the interview when I got going into the writing, and I said, well, I'm going to pull that out and do it in the next book.
Yes.
And so is coming out with an article in the next issue.
The photographer was here.
They did a pretty good job.
Maybe they do a very thorough job.
And we're going to get an article in Tricycle, which is a Buddhist magazine.
What we really need is help in presenting our case to the preservation people rather than to the... The whole book is all about preservation stuff.
So maybe we can... This book will be out.
The book that will be out a year from now, 16 months, I can tell you exactly, it's going to be out in the fall of 2003.
And I'm still working on a title for it, but I had a title.
You're not going to use Milton.
I like it.
Well, it's from the epigenetic, a book of precious life, a blood of a master spirit, a bond and treasured on a purpose to a life beyond, we'll call it life beyond life.
But they say it's this,
It doesn't.
It doesn't have that pizzazz.
But I like music of the spheres, and I can justify that.
And then the subtitle will be, The Permanence of Books in an Impermanent World.
And that'll sell it.
I mean, we'll establish it.
You don't do anything for The New Yorker anymore.
I never wrote for The New Yorker.
You never did?
Oh, I thought you did.
I wrote for Smithsonian, and The New York Times I do stuff for.
civilization while it was still in business.
But not for New York, it would be wonderful, but I've never been asked, and I thought it out.
Then we've got one piece coming out in the next issue, or the first issue, the second issue of this new magazine on Buddhism coming out from the Shambhala folks.
I'd like to take a few more pictures if it's alright.
Sure.
Get some of him before he leaves.
I will.
Maybe with the stuff.
Yeah, I think that would be good.
Why don't you get some pictures with Leonard?
No, because I feel like this is something I want more corporate.
Trust me, you're going to be...
I want it to continue.
If I were not here, we've got to find a way of getting this to continue because there's still so much to be done.
So that's your greatest concern, is to see that it continues.
We've got 2,000 volumes scanned, and we need to scan another
10,000.
So that's a total, that'll give us the, and of course stuff is still coming in from China.
So is this a logistical problem?
I mean, or is it?
No, it's just, you know, life is permanent.
It is impermanent.
And so what do you do?
And I want to see these materials available in every place.
Books for everybody.
So then once it's scanned, it has to be cataloged, it has to be processed.
I'm sorry.
Let me just think about that.
OK, take a picture.
We're going to take a picture with some of the stuff.
OK, we're on.
Well, maybe we can leave something upstairs.
Well, I asked Leonard to do this.
If you had a word to describe what you do.
What's going on?
This is Cameron White.
Hi, Cameron.
Sit down.
He's a graduate student at Harvard who's helping us.
I'm going to take a couple pictures, if that's okay.
Get in the picture.
These are informal shots.
Show him what you're doing.
Go ahead.
I'm sorry.
Thank you.
You're saying you're doing what?
I'm sorry?
I'm learning the Tibetan how to type the Tibetan.
I don't know very much.
How do you type it here?
I see.
We have a special program, I think.
You can type in with the English keyboard, but it comes up a little bit.
Oh, so a Roman letter gives you that.
That's what you were discussing downstairs.
Yeah.
And this is something Cater has gotten.
It's an edict, a copy of an edict from the fifth Dalai Lama that says the bumbos are as good as Buddhists.
troubled minority.
Tibetans have minorities too, right?
I can't show you the other world enough.
But Kadrup has published many of these books.
In the old days, he published, how many did you publish?
Forty volumes.
He printed for the Bunbur community.
Now he's working
he's been working and having to scan the same books he published.
So you actually have to know which Roman letter, almost reflexively, because you don't want to go and refer to every letter.
We have a triaderation system, but you have to know it almost like a text system.
Yeah, there must be a lot of thinking going back and forth between languages.
And I would think
Excellent.
I don't want to just disrupt your work.
Do you want to see some books?
If there's anything that pops out to you that's especially noteworthy.
It's everything, isn't it?
It's literature, it's religion, it's art.
This room is medicine.
and astrology.
Like dating from when?
We can say medicine.
Oh, the earliest medicine goes back.
The oldest manuscripts we have are fourteenth century.
Wow.
And it's even older stuff.
But what we did was, for example,
Now, this is something you published, right?
Yeah.
This is an eighth-century manuscript, but that's something with Jess Hubbard's… No, it was published by the folks in Dharamsala, the Library of Tibetan Works and Archives, and it's from a collection of a Sikhanese aristocrat.
It's four treaties on the principles and practices of Tibetan medicine.
These are the facsimiles of the manuscripts.
Now that is a facsimile, you see, but it's published as a regular codex book and not as a pamouselie.
But again, it's the libraries.
They don't like these books where they can't circulate.
Now this can be sent out like a regular book.
How extensive has your publishing program been?
Well, I mean, haven't you published books yourself?
No.
No?
I'm just interested in passing it away.
Okay.
These are things we have made.
This is arts, the arts.
Well, that's right.
Well, then, but you've affected.
Yeah, I agree.
Okay.
This is a painter.
We needed to have explanations of how the proportions are drawn.
So this is a two-volume collection on how to design Tibetan things you do in paintings where the painter can copy this to put into his paintings.
So again, this comes from a teacher, doesn't it?
Yeah.
These have to be very precisely rendered.
Right.
Then we had them do how to make mandalas, you know, these psychosomatic mandalas.
Okay.
Psycho-cosmic diet.
Psycho-cosmic diet, correct.
So if you write out what it should look like, like this, you'll see it, and then you'll know what to type.
Oh, it's a mandala, M-A-N-D-A-L-A-S, right?
And what we have, this is how the mandala, the final mandala looks.
So if you want to write, Mane Padme Hoon.
Okay, good.
And then we have him,
Take the text.
And now you know how you should type a student where the vowels should know.
And it's in verse, you see.
And then this explains what each of these terms means.
Because we don't know the names.
So you see how you lay it out.
So it's really a manual, isn't it?
A manual.
Yeah, it's a manual.
How to create it.
We've published it.
We've published a number of arguments like this.
So what does the original one date from, would you say?
The original date's from the last century.
Oh, so this is a fairly recent thing, yeah.
Well, the 19th century, you mean, yeah.
Here's something interesting.
This is the text we did.
Illustrated Tibeto-Mongolian
Materia Medica of Ayurveda.
And then you would have these colors, the block print like we had.
And it was a collaboration between me and the head of the Buryat, Buryat Russian Church, and Lokes Chandras, so India,
One more example.
1971, so I moved to Delhi.
And the idea was to get this all done.
I sort of laid it out.
It's got pictures in it.
Can you read that?
Of Yetis.
That's a Yeti.
A Yeti being?
These are these abominable snowmen?
Yeah, sure.
And this is how these different animals are used in medical practice.
So this one is useful because it's to clear impurities of the bile.
So, you know, it's broad.
There's a great hero to that called the Geysar.
Geysar is the epicure.
It comes from Kaisar.
And all those books over there have to do with Geysar, or guess the hero.
How do we spell that again?
G-E-N-S-A-R.
So the collection is basically about twelve thousand volumes.
Here is one we published in Bhutan with the director of the National Library and Rolstein, who was professor of the Collège de France and the World's Authority on KSAR.
And he wrote the introduction, which is in the first volume.
This is the text of this epic, this particular episode.
Now, I don't want to ask a stupid question, but do we read left to right?
Yeah.
Always.
Just like we do.
All of this, there's 32 volumes of it.
Thirty-two volumes, which you published.
Yeah.
Here it is.
And this is something that tells about the—and then Professor Stein wrote the introduction to it.
in English.
Now, are these available in the libraries around here?
Around, yes.
All these volumes are available.
This is Stein writing on it.
Can I ask you another question?
Now that you're going digital,
Does that mean you no longer think that you'll be doing the hard copies of the books?
No, it will continue to happen.
That's probably very important to you.
It's very important, because the digital is a preservation media.
I mean, obviously— And that does everything.
I mean, he wouldn't want to read.
a book in on the screen.
It's like microfilm of newspapers.
Sure.
It's a pain in the neck, but it's necessary, and it does do everything.
But selectively, you'll continue to do the hard copies.
This is Professor Stein writing on the Epoch of G-E-S-A-R volume, and that was done in, you said, 30 volumes?
32 volumes.
Here is his first publication.
R. A. Stein, S-T-E-I.
Rolf.
Alfred Stein.
He was a professor of the College de France.
He passed away a year and a half ago.
He was a teacher of us all.
There, here's another one.
He's worked on the ethic.
Could you have a rough idea of how many
volumes that you have assisted in the publication of?
Peter and I were just trying to talk about the bumbo last night.
He thinks about four hundred, right?
Yeah.
You think only four hundred bumbo?
No, the more the book, more books, but we published it so far, I think four hundred, something like that.
I'm not quite sure.
But about four hundred.
That's just one tradition.
One different.
But all of these were done under the same program.
So how many would you think, roughly?
Well, I think we did probably close to 8,000 volumes.
8,000 that you published?
Yeah.
Well, that's extraordinary.
Well, it's just encouraging them to publish them.
I didn't publish them.
Well, yeah, but you've been more or less the midwife to the— When you say them, who's them?
Pedro, his friends.
We just came and brought the books to us, and then we said, if you publish this, it's worthwhile.
And then they'd take it back, and they would go, and they would arrange for the publication.
They would make a profit, naturally, if everybody had no profit.
Of course, you don't have to apologize for that.
And then they would then
bring them to us and we would buy copies.
So these are largely being published in other countries?
Yeah.
For example, this.
This is an encyclopedia.
And I can see it's many, many volumes.
Yeah, 140.
140 volumes.
And what would the generic name of this encyclopedia be?
Encyclopedia Tibetica.
Dating from approximately when?
The Guide Loads, 1376 to 1451.
Wow.
And when were these copies printed?
These copies are already decaying.
They were printed in 1975, 1974.
Did you work in these?
Yeah.
And where were they printed?
They were printed in India, 1970.
1970.
So it's Encyclopedia—we'll take a photograph— that's Encyclopedia Tibetica.
And then I did an index to it.
And I did introductions.
And it's already degrading.
Yeah.
So this was ascetic paper.
This is prior to the knowledge that we were— Yeah.
See, these are— And this was published—can I even see the—
No.
To Beth House, so I think I did get a picture of this.
So this is 69, even.
Yeah.
Wow.
So can you tell me a little bit about this encyclopedia?
This was an extraordinarily great scholar who said he wanted to gather together all of knowledge.
All of knowledge.
He called it the Deni, the reality dupa put together.
So he then arranged it.
Unfortunately, we don't have all of it left.
Many volumes have been lost when they left Tibet.
And his tradition is very small.
Are we talking about the 50s now?
Yeah, this was in 59 when they left.
So material was lost?
Yeah, the volumes were lost when they brought them across the border.
But do you think that any of it still survives over there?
We may find it.
Now, His Holiness the Dalai Lama is very keen on having this reprinted because now it's out of print.
It's out of print and it's on paper that's decaying.
Yeah.
So the Dalai Lama ordered Tibet House, the Venerable Dobrum Rinpoche, to reprint it.
He directed them or he ordered them?
And we have been collaborating.
We are providing them the digital scans.
Uh-huh.
From these plates or whatever, these pages.
Yeah.
We scanned it, the entire.
And then they will print it as a book, as books.
Wow.
And when do you think that is... Well, they're having a lot of... We're adding things to it.
We're adding checks that have turned up since that time.
That's a great story.
And the ranking Lady Lama of Tibet, who is the consort and the chi-head of the tradition, is a woman called the Diamond Sao, or the Dorje Pamo.
And she is collaborating.
She wants this done, because it represents her tradition.
So copies of this will go into Tibet.
What I'm looking at is probably fifteen linear feet, maybe, that's a guess.
One person wrote this?
Yeah.
One person wrote all of this.
That's extraordinary.
It's called Bodong Panchen, the great Pandita of Bodong, Chole Namgyal.
I want to write that down before I transcribe this.
I mean, if I do a little search on this, I might be able to find a reference on it, do you think?
My notebook's downstairs.
You just said it took us a long time to do this, right?
When did you start the actual work on it?
Prior to publication?
Yeah, in 1968.
58.
68.
68, but that's when you started publishing in 68 as well.
Yeah, but we had to do that.
We were doing each volume.
So these were copied from?
Manuscripts.
Had they ever been in print before?
No.
This is the first printed edition.
First printed edition of them.
Well, it's an amazing story.
Yeah.
They go all the way over to there, and then come all the way back.
I'm going to take a picture of that.
I think that's pretty darn interesting, I have to say.
I don't think that's good for me to be in a picture with the book so much lower than me.
All right, why don't I just take a picture out on that?
Okay, you're not in that picture at all.
I think this is great.
And when are you leaving, Gene?
You don't know approximately?
I'll leave you alone for the next couple of weeks then, and when you're resettled— Yeah, come down to New York.
I'd like you to meet—there's a rather remarkable project that he's doing, which I'd like you to—we're going to have him help us in New York, but the Boone Foundation is a group of
Americans who are trying to help them preserve in India their traditional literary culture.
This is a small tradition, but they have huge numbers of volumes, and they're slowly coming out.
We just have received—you can't see them because they're in the basement—the Bunbo canon, that's the works of their Lord Buddha.
How many volumes are there, Kater?
I think there are two hundred twenty-five volumes.
Two hundred twenty-five volumes.
And about three hundred volumes in Egypt.
And three hundred volumes is a tinger.
So he's going to have his work cut out for him, because I want him to scan all of this.
Wow.
So he's here in the States.
He was involved in making Tibetan books for a very long time.
And there's the key to that.
That's great.
Does it work?
We should leave him alone.
Did you manage to get the, did you get, you can see with the acrobat?
Yeah, yeah.
You want to see?
No, no, no.
So was this, can I ask you a question about the encyclopedia again?
We should leave him alone.
You obviously knew all about this encyclopedia, but it was a manuscript thing.
Now these volumes, were these organized by you and your colleagues?
No, they're still not organized.
This is not necessarily the sequence that they were written in, right?
No.
So this was kind of an arbitrary thing that you people— Yeah, now they're trying to put it together in a proper way.
Here we have this Gantt.
And these were preserved.
Let me go get my notebook, okay?
I'll be right back.
...on this particular set.
But we've provided it to Beth House for the reprinting.
Now this is the encyclopedia.
Yeah.
So here...
For example, here's one volume.
See, there it is.
Just scan it from there, copy.
This is volume 90.
Would you like to print me just one title page, one of those?
Sure.
That way I'll know I'll have the spelling right.
And just don't personally print the whole thing.
Just print one thing.
Yes, Mac.
Otherwise, I'll be getting the whole encyclopedia.
I don't think you will have that.
Print.
Just say page.
Current page.
There you go.
Okay, and we'll print it on the one out there because this one's jammed.
I think we're pretty good.
I think I have to go back and absorb some of this stuff, and I'll probably go to work on transferring myself tonight.
Well, anything we can do to help you is a great project, and it might help us with food.
We have been curiously lacking in support from the... They think we're too much Buddhists.
The big granting agents like Rockefeller, Ford, Mellon.
They give us a flight, no, but we're told that it's because we are a Buddhist organization.
What's the animus towards that?
No, it's just that they don't give to
religious.
I see.
Hello, you're here!
Dr. Sick.
You're back.
Hey, great!
We were going to go and have lunch.
Can you have lunch?
Yeah, sure.
I thought we'd... I thought we'd go and have a Korean place.
I'll set.
But you're telling me just briefly on the... I mean, I'll set.
No, no, no.
I mean, I'm all set in terms of—you said that you're having trouble getting funding because you've received it.
Yeah, because we're received as being two Buddhists.
We're trying to write down our— But that's where we got the funding.
Yeah, we get our funding from the Buddhists, but when we try to apply to foundations like Freeman, Ford,
Rockefeller, they give us flight.
Well, we weren't really, we were still a start-up, but I think they feel that we're, they don't want to fund religious organizations.
But you're not a religious organization.
No.
I think we should state that, then.
Yeah, I think you should.
You know, we're, I mean, you should state it.
We're not.
And we're simply trying to preserve the culture.
And the beneficiaries are not only the universities, but will also be the lineage holders, the translators, the Buddhists.
But we want to provide things to everyone, because that's the whole idea.
That's a great story.
The 137 volume encyclopedia of Bodong.
The first printed edition that she did, that Jane did, in the 1960s in Delhi.
And because it's on acidic paint, but just getting that stuff out.
Was that basically brought out by pilgrims, nomads?
No.
There was a group, a very strong group of people called the
community, and they're still very active.
On the fringes.
They're still way out in the west.
In the middle of nowhere, literally.
Yeah.
And they had these books.
And they had, I think... They were manuscript copies.
Were they unique copies of this, do you think?
Did this only exist in a few... I think there must have been copies at the Jura Monastery and at Samdi.
But they're gone.
They're gone.
So they were destroyed.
Yeah, so what happened?
That's a major accomplishment, isn't it?
They hauled the stuff across the border, on yaks, into Nepal.
And two or three yaks and their loads fell into the water and were drowned.
And you see, the thing is, we don't know the code to the way the thing is structured.
Not yet.
So this remains a work in progress.
It's exciting if you're a scholar in this area.
This is untouched in some territory.
And it's divided into sections.
And I think there were
There probably are two sets of the Din Dupa Gepa in there, the big one, which is 110 volumes.
Plus there must have been a set of the Dringbo.
And you found a block print of the Shintu Dupa in the British Library.
That's a 15th-century block print.
Yeah, but the great one was never blocked, Leonard.
Too big.
It was too big, and the copies are very badly blocked.
And the Boudoir didn't have that money.
They didn't have the economic wherewithal to have it, but never, because they're all in the fringes, because it's pretty perfect.
All right, but do you know enough about this person who did the encyclopedia?
Oh, yeah.
And Leonard Saund in Beijing,
the biography of his consort, who must have been quite an interesting woman.
She was the princess of the house of the royal family of Gungang, and she was taken first as a consort by Bodong, and then she became the consort of
the great engineer of Tibetan history, the maker of iron bridges, Hong Kong Yellow.
And she then fostered a lineage of incarnations.
Well, she didn't incarnate, the only one which had it.
Yeah, well, probably more.
And this monastery was located, and it was headed, it was a monastery, but it was headed by a
a female incarnate Lama called Assamding Garjupamo.
And she is the eighth or tenth of a detective today.
And preserving Buddhist her own culture.
These things are very complex.
And that's a great sentence.
You know, I'm always looking for the way I start it and the way I end it.
That's the kicker.
That's the final sentence that you use in the chapter.
These things are very complex.
No, I'm always looking for how I start it.
People say, do you have your lead?
I say, I never leave an interview until I know how I'm starting it.
And also, if I know how I'm ending it.
I hadn't seen the kicker yet.
And there it is, right there.
These things are very complex.
No kidding.
That's fabulous.
She's very active, and she actually met a set of these books being brought to the airport in Lanza with a band, the Gialing.
The photocopies.
Who made the photocopies?
They were made by a soldier.
This was the entire set?
The entire set.
Wow.
Took them by plane to the airport, and then the Samding doji promo met her and conducted her to Samding.
And this woman is trying to restore this tradition.
But, you know, it's
I don't think we'll ever find the rest of it.
But you saved most of it.
Yeah, well, I don't think we have.
Maybe in Potala.
Maybe what?
In the Potala.
There are untold treasures there.
Untold treasures.
And where is this?
Potala.
The Potala.
But who knows?
We hope that more will survive, will come out.
I've been looking for it for years.
I mean, there's things in it that—you know, a translation of the story of Sita from the Ramayana.
Are there any published texts that you can recommend that will tell me something about this encyclopedia, or is it just a—there's a breadth of stuff written on it?
No, I don't think that's what it is.
So when I write about this, people aren't going to be able to go to Google and do a search and find anything.
Because there's so much literature, and so, well, the few of us are interested in intellectual culture and intellectual culture, and the history of the Aedesians, and that, no, you don't find it.
You are fine, but don't mind.
Right.
Yeah, I'm just teasing, but I mean, like Jay's story, have there been any kind of scholarly articles, journal articles?
No, for some reason not.
And how do you judge this person as a cultural?
Just biography.
Say what?
There is biography with him, I used to disciple a lot of biography,
Those of us who read the biography.
So there is a biography written of him?
Yes, internet.
Thanks a lot.
Which is based in terms of two or three other biographies.
Which you didn't photograph.
I know they were in a long time.
I didn't get a hold of them.
I worked in Nepal for five years.
He was doing preservation in Nepal.
Doing much, much more than I was.
Anyway, this woman, this Japanese woman, I've been in touch with Ayako to see if we could find those.
I want to publish those two biographies that she saw.
She has them?
No.
She says that she can get them.
This is a young, or she's not young anymore, she says.
Japanese woman, she's married to a photographer.
She's still passionately interested.
But if we could get it and send them to India for reproduction, we can increase the size of the collection.
How many copies of that encyclopedia were printed, do you think?
Probably a hundred, maybe?
Do you think that's any?
Maybe less, I don't know.
I mean, how many are there in the States at the East, maybe 10?
Tui Bunker has maybe one.
Nobody in China has one until in India.
So this is a very rare book.
It's still rare.
Even the printed edition is very rare.
And he was telling me that the Dalai Lama ordered the reprinting of this.
first printed edition.
He showed me the files here.
I'd love to have a copy.
It would seem to me there are a lot of Ph.D.
theses that could be written there.
Yeah, but 137 volumes would be one more than one.
She calls him a... She has in one Bush student, who called him a sexist pig.
No, not quite.
Not quite.
I'm just floundering her.
I'm going to use the facility, if I may.